Indukotitej Karun-Sindhu Bhaktavatsalam.
Nandanatrisunu Dutt, Indiraksha Shrigurum.
Gandhamalya Akshatadi - Vrindadevavanditam.
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥१॥

Meaning: Whose brightness or whose gentle light is like the billions of moons, which is the ocean of mercy. Who is a lover of devotees. Which is pleasing. Who is the son of Atrimaharshi. Whose name is Sridatta. Whose eyes are as beautiful as a tube, and all the palms of the hands are beautiful and radiant. Which is the guru of all. And who has been worshiped and saluted by all the deities by smell, flower, and incense. Of course, I pay my respects to Shri Nrusinhasaraswati Yativar, to whom all the gods always smell Gandhapushpa Akshadadi and pray at his feet that, this is Shri Gurudeva! You protect me.


Mayapash - Andhakarachhayadurbhaskaram.
आयताक्ष पाहि श्रियावल्लभेश - नायकम्॥
Sevya - bhaktavrinda varada, bhuyo-bhuyonammamyaham.
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥२॥

Meaning: which is the sun that removes the illusory darkness. Whose eyes are as wide and beautiful as a lotus petal, which is dear to Lakshmi. One who is all regulator and all controller, one who serves all, one who is served by all, and one who is the bestower of devotees, the one who fulfills the expectations of his devotees, that is, the one who fulfills the desires of all devotees. I pay homage to such Shri Nrusinha Saraswati Yativaris and pray at their feet that this is Shri Gurudeva! You protect me.

चित्तजादिवर्गषट्क - मत्त वारणांकुशम्।
तत्सारशोभितात्मदत्त श्रियावल्लभम्॥
Uttamavatar bhoot-kartra bhaktavatsalam.
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥३॥

Meaning: which is the restraint that controls the frantic elephants in the form of six disorders of heart-generated work, anger, greed, lust, lust and envy Due to which the meaning of the four epics of Tatvamasi, Aham Bramhasmi, Prajanambramha, Aymatma Brahma is beautiful. Who is all-pervading, who is Lakshmi's favorite, who is the best incarnate man. I salute Mr. Nrusinhasaraswati Yeti Varya who is the doer of Panchmaha demons and who is Bhaktapriya i.e. Bhaktavatsal and at his feet I pray that this is Gurudev! You protect me.

व्योमरापवायुतेज - भूमिकर्तुमीश्वरम्।
कामक्रोधमोहरहित सोमसूर्य-लोचनम्॥
Kamitarthadatru devotee - Kamadhenu Shrigurum.
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥४॥

Meaning: One who produces and regulates the sky, water, air, fire and earth, who is the supreme form without work, anger, temptation, whose moon and sun are the eyes and who fulfills all the desires of the devotees like Kamadhenu I pay my respects to Shri Nrusinha Saraswati who is such a doer and I pray at his feet that this is Shri Gurudev! You must protect me.

Pundarik - Rectangle, Kundalendutejasam.
चंडदुरितखंडनार्थ दंडधारि श्रीगुरुम्॥
Mandalikamaili - Martand - Bhasitanam.
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥५॥

Meaning: Whose eyes are as big as a lotus, whose ear-rings are as shining as the moon, who has a pen in his hand to break the terrible calamity on the devotee. Whose head is adorned with circular braids whose face is as bright as the sun. I salute such Shri Nrusinha Saraswati Yeti Varyas and pray that this is Shri Gurudeva! You protect me.

वेदशास्त्रास्तुत्यपाद, आदिमूर्ति श्रीगुरुम्।
नादबिंदुकलातील, कल्पपादसेव्ययम्॥
सेव्यभक्तवृंदवरद भूयो भूयो नमाम्यहम्।
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥६॥

Meaning: Whose footsteps chant the hymns of the lotus, the Vedas and the scriptures, the original Shrigurumurti is the first incarnation of Shriguru or the Shriguru of all Shrigurus. I am saluting Shri Nrusinha Saraswati Yativar, who is beyond Anahatanad, Bindu and Kala, who is as devotional as Kalpatar, who is worthy of continuous service as Kalpatar, who is the bestower of service to his devotees and who deserves to be greeted frequently by a devotee like me. At his feet he prays, O Lord! You protect me.

अष्टयोगतत्वनिष्ठ, तुष्ट ज्ञानवारिधिम्।
कृष्णावेणितीरवास - पंचनदी - संगमम्॥
कष्टदैन्यदूरिभक्त - तुष्ट्काम्यदायकम्।
वंदयामि नारसिंह - सरस्वतीश पाहि माम् ॥७॥

Meaning: One who is prosperous in Ashtanga Yoga, who is always satisfied and happy, who is the ocean of Jana, who dwells on the banks of the river Krishna and the confluence of the five rivers, who removes all the hardships, poverty and humiliation of his devotees and is satisfied with them I salute Mr. Nrusinhasaraswati Yativar who gives everything he wants or wants and prays at his feet that, O Gurudev! You protect me.

नारसिंहसरस्वतीश्च - नाम अष्ट्मौक्तीकम।
हारकृत शारदेन गंगाधर - आत्मजम्॥
Holder - Devadiksha Gurumurtitoshitam.
परमात्मानंदश्रियापुत्र - पौत्रदायकम् ॥८॥

Meaning: Narasimhasaraswati is the eight letters which is a necklace of eight pearls made by Shri Shardadevi on the occasion of Saraswati, the son of Gangadhara. Those who satisfy Shri Gurumurti by wearing this hymn necklace, that is, by constant love, are satisfied with Paramatma and get superior bliss. Satisfied with the constant recitation of this hymn, Shrigurumurti makes them happy by giving them Aishwarya, wealth, sons and grandsons.

Narasimhasaraswatiya Ashtakam Chaya: Pathet.
घोरसंसारसिन्धु - तारणाख्यसाधनम्॥
सारज्ञानदीर्घ आयुरारोग्यादिसंपदम्।
चारूवर्गकाम्यलाभ वार्ता यज्पेत् ॥९॥

Meaning: This octave of Shri Nrusinha Saraswati Swami Maharaj will be a means of crossing the world ocean for those who recite it regularly. To know the essence of it means self-knowledge, longevity, health, wealth etc. Will get all. He who recites this psalm daily and always regularly, gets the benefits of Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha, the fourfold purushartha as per his expectation and all his desires are fulfilled.

॥ Thus the octave of Shri Nrusinha Saraswati Swami Maharaj composed by Shri Saraswati Gangadhar was completed.

